Innocent Buu
https://dragonball.fandom.com/wiki/Innocent_Buu

Innocent Buu or Majin Buu (Good), usually just called Buu, is the first form of Majin Buu seen in the Dragon Ball series. He is the result of Kid Buu absorbing Grand Supreme Kai.

He is the main antagonist for the Majin Buu Saga.

Appearance

Innocent Buu has pink skin, an antenna on top of his head with three "steam holes" on each side. He is clothed in a purple cape, and a black vest with golden trims. He wears yellow gloves and boots with white baggy pants. He also wears a black belt with a golden belt buckle with the "Demon mark". Innocent Buu's face is also distinctive. He is usually smiling with, what appears to be, shut eyes. His eyes open but usually when he's very angry.

Personality
Although he is one of the most powerful entities in Dragon Ball Z, Innocent Buu is often playful and displays his childish personality, revealing he destroys things for fun simply from old instructions from his master, stopping once told what he was doing was wrong thanks to Grand Supreme Kai's personality showing in him. Though he is playful and silly, his evil side is readily apparent, especially shown when his eyes widen, and steam shoots out of the holes on his body. His extreme anger issues show themselves often, when he is even slightly made fun of, or starts to lose in a battle. He finds enjoyment in taking the lives of many and shows no remorse, though this is because he treats everything as a game due to his childlike innocence. In battle, he fights in a bullying manner, using his immense size to outflank his opponent.

While he follows the orders of Bibidi and Babidi, he mainly does so to avoid being punished by them by being sealed inside the Sealed Ball via a spell known only to Bibidi and Babidi (or in the case of Bibidi, in order to have cake if he does what he commands). Though he followed Bibidi's orders, in the past he is known to have occasionally misbehaved forcing Bibidi to seal him as punishment to get Buu to cooperate, again showing Buu's childlike nature. However, Buu is shown to like those who treat him respectfully such as Goku and Mr. Satan and even takes Goku's suggestion that a powerful fighter like him should not let himself be bossed around by a cowardly worm like Babidi to heart, leading him to strangle Babidi to prevent him from saying the sealing incantation before killing him with a punch. Though free of Bibidi and Babidi's control, he still continued to destroy cities for fun due to their influence.

Despite the pleasure he takes in mass-murder, it is later revealed that he only committed such acts because he was unaware of the moral implications of his actions, and because he had been commanded to do so by Babidi, and Bibidi before him. He later befriended Mr. Satan, who feigned being Majin Buu's servant while trying to kill Buu with dirty tricks and booby traps, all of which failed. While Majin Buu could commit evil actions, due to the good influence of Grand Supreme Kai, he was also capable of acts of kindness even before meeting Mr. Satan such as when he healed a boy named Tommy of his blindness, after befriending the boy who did not run away due to his blindness, although he initially healed him under the naïve belief that Tommy would fear him if he saw him.

He is also shown to have a slight interest in women as he uses his body manipulation to alter his face to resemble Barry Kahn in the hope a frightened girl would find him more attractive. However, she was still terrified of him and rejects his attempts to kiss her, causing him to turn her into food.

Mr. Satan later learned of Majin Buu's innocent nature when he brought an injured puppy who he heals and is named Bee by Mr. Satan. After learning Majin Buu did not known the difference between right and wrong, Mr. Satan manages to convince him to stop killing. However, he later becomes conflicted when Mr. Satan is hurt by the evil gunman Van Zant, becoming torn between keeping his promise and his desire to kill Van Zant for hurting Mr. Satan.

The Grand Supreme Kai's presence is more influential in this form than in Super Buu, who is mostly evil and is influenced very little by the Kai. After promising Mr. Satan to stop killing, he literally struggles with the evil inside himself, with the evil winning and usurping near complete control, Majin Buu becoming far more dangerous as a result. However Super Buu retains Innocent Buu's memories of Mr. Satan and Bee prevent him from killing them and made him willing to listen to Mr. Satan's daughter Videl, though it had not even prevented him from turning her into food after escaping from the Hyperbolic Time Chamber. This also prevented Kid Buu from killing Mr. Satan as well, though he simply expelled Good Buu from himself, freeing him of both Innocent Buu's memories and Grand Supreme Kai's influence which were inherited by Good Buu, who fought Kid Buu to protect Mr. Satan.

In addition to Innocent Buu's memories and friendship with Mr. Satan and Bee, Good Buu also apparently retained Innocent Buu's interest in women which later lead to Good Buu using fission to create the first female Majin Miss Buu after reading the adult book Bob & Margaret, which eventually lead to Good Buu and Miss Buu stating a family leading to the creation of the Majin race in Dragon Ball Online. Though Good Buu is essentially the pure good side of Innocent Buu, he can still misbehave in a childish fashion especially when it comes to food as he refuses to share his pudding with Beerus (it should be noted that Buu was unaware of Beerus' position nor did he know the danger of upsetting Beerus at the time) and interrupted Mr. Satan's press conference when he was hungry showing that he still retains certain negative aspects of Innocent Buu's personality, though none of these negative traits are inherently evil.

Buu also possesses an enormous appetite for sweets, shown to far exceed even Goku's eating habits, as Buu was still hungry after he once turned a whole city of people into candy and ate them. Majin Buu only has to sleep for about five seconds to get the results earthlings gets from hours of slumber. He is extremely naïve, as he was completely ignorant of Mr. Satan's (inept) attempts to kill him. Some of his good deeds were also the result of this naivete before his formal reformation, as his motive for healing the blind boy Tommy was because the boy, due to his lack of sight, obviously couldn't fear him, so he gave him sight specifically to allow him to face fear due to thinking he was supposed to be feared.

In Dragon Ball Legends during the Tournament of Time, Innocent Buu once again acts as an underling for Babidi who pretends to be the Mastermind behind the tournament when in reality he is unbeknownst to Babidi himself is nothing but the true Mastermind's puppet. After he is defeated by Super Saiyan 3 Shallot, Innocent Buu develops hatred towards the Saiyan for being stronger than him as both his childish nature and evil side cannot bear losing to anyone. However, after Super Saiyan 3 Shallot blows up Innocent Buu, instead of reforming normally, the evil within Innocent Buu falls under the Mastermind's influence resulting in it triggering the fission into Evil Buu and Good Buu. Due to Good Buu inheriting Innocent Buu's memories of Shallot, he also inherits Innocent Buu's desire for revenge, becoming focused on fighting him after he survives following the destruction of Kid Buu by Shallot.
