Piccolo
https://dragonball.fandom.com/wiki/Piccolo

Piccolo Jr., usually just called Piccolo and also known as Ma Junior, is a Namekian and also the final child and reincarnation of King Piccolo, later becoming the reunification of the Nameless Namekian after fusing with Kami, at which point he was once referred to as Kamiccolo by Goku. According to Grand Elder Guru, Piccolo, along with Kami and King Piccolo, are part of the Dragon Clan, who were the original creators of the Dragon Balls.

A wise and cunning warrior, he was the main antagonist in the final saga of Dragon Ball, the Piccolo Jr. Saga, and was thus a ruthless enemy of Goku. However, starting with the first saga of Dragon Ball Z, the Raditz Saga, he began to lose all villainous traits, and when he started training Goku's son Gohan during the Vegeta Saga which led to the two developing a strong bond, he became a permanent member of the Dragon Team and eventually one of Earth's greatest heroes.

Appearance

Piccolo is a very tall and muscular Namekian. While greatly resembling his father/incarnation, he is noticeably shorter and somewhat thinner, though his father's extreme height appears to have been a personal choice on his part to give himself a further intimidating appearance as opposed to naturally occuring. He also has a more solid facial structure with less pronounced cheekbones, a rounder chin, and a straight nose. Piccolo only has four fingers with black nails in the Dragon Ball manga, but five fingers with white nails in the anime series and the Dragon Ball Super manga. He has several colored patches of skin with red borders and thin black lines going across them on his arms, legs, and stomach, which are pink in the anime and yellow in the manga (and in and Dragon Ball Daima).

Piccolo Jr.'s outfit when he was a kid is very similar to the one King Piccolo is first seen wearing, with the same color scheme shown on the Kanzenban manga covers. From the time he is a young adult onward, Piccolo wears a dark violet gi, pointy orange shoes and sky-blue obi (red in the manga). When not fighting seriously, Piccolo also wears a white turban with a dark purple blue top and a white cape along with it. The turban was initially depicted with two pointy dangling ends for his debut in in the manga plus in the next episode preview of Dragon Ball Episode 134 (including one shot in the respective episode where Tien is observing him), only to disappear from his design shortly thereafter.

Like Goku, Piccolo generally wears and trains with weighted clothing. The cape itself is not weighted, but there is weighted padding underneath; this is seen twice in the series: when his cape is damaged while fighting Frieza in his second form, and when it is damaged by Lord Slug's henchmen. As the series went on, Piccolo Jr.'s outfit became more his own and by the time he faced the Androids. The outfit's neckline becomes more lowcut like Goku's outfit, minus Goku's own undershirt. In the manga, many of the movies, and certain video games (Supersonic Warriors 2 and Super Dragon Ball Z), Piccolo wears a red obi rather than a sky blue one.

Even though Piccolo Jr. discards his old symbol, he uses it once in the series when he made his pupil Gohan a uniform after his previous outfit was torn in a Great Ape transformation. In the anime, when both of them are forced by Goku's wife Chi-Chi to go to driving school, Piccolo wears an old outfit of Goku's, which he despised wearing.Dragon Ball Z episode 125, "Goku's Ordeal"

In Super Hero, Piccolo's outfit is changed slightly. His gi is a slightly brighter shade of purple, the neckline is cut even lower than before, and he has a red obi, like the manga and other films. His shoes are olive brown, rounder at the tips, and have grays soles at the bottom. In order to infiltrate the Red Ribbon Army base, Piccolo dons the uniform of a Red Ribbon Army soldier that features the number 94 on the chest (which is a Japanese wordplay nodding to how Pan calls him "Piccoyo").

Personality
Throughout the franchise, regardless of Piccolo's allegiance, his general demeanor has always been stern, if not grumpy, with an indifferent attitude towards others. Piccolo rarely smiles and enjoys solitude. Piccolo is frequently seen meditating in quiet places and drinking thawed ice water in the north area. However, he shows a noticeable cockiness when fighting. He can also be very confrontational toward people, showing very direct and honest opinions about a situation or an individual. Piccolo is known for his very precise and efficient methods in battle and likewise is shown to be very analytical and tactical in battle, able to see through his opponent's skills and weaknesses to devise effective strategies for victory. In the Baby Saga, Baby openly acknowledged Piccolo as one of the most brilliant fighters in the galaxy.

Originally, Piccolo inherited his father's desire for world domination and destroying Goku. He was determined to prove his superiority and possessed many of the villainous properties of his father, such as a violent and destructive nature and a total disregard for anything besides victory. This was shown during his battle with Goku in the 23rd World Martial Arts Tournament, where he shows almost no mercy for his opponent, breaking all of Goku's limbs while laughing sadistically, believing it was necessary after what Goku had done to his father. Despite all this, Piccolo was not without a measure of restraint and honor, as he for no reason saved a mother and daughter from debris during a storm.Dragon Ball episode 133, "Changes" He also let Krillin walk away after submitting in the tournament. Piccolo has also shown traits of pragmatism, teaming up with his archrival Goku and later the rest of the Z Fighters when the threat of the Saiyans proves to be too much for him alone, citing the aliens' defeat as a shared goal. According to Goku, his overall evil nature became more of a stubborn and angry attitude than flat-out villainous.

After his battle against Goku, Piccolo gradually began to develop for the better as the evil nature only dwelled through his desire to destroy Goku inherited from his father. Later, when he and Goku team up to battle Raditz, Piccolo began to show more respect during the battle, even commemorating Goku on his noble sacrifice despite still considering him an enemy and, during the battle against Nappa, praised the other Z Fighters' bravery and tactics.

While training Goku's young son, Gohan, while originally only for to prepare for the coming Saiyans, Piccolo's heart and motives quickly begin to change as the boy takes his time to talk with Piccolo and have normal discussions that do not result in a violent outbreak, this stemming from Gohan agreeing on Goku's views of Piccolo now being more grumpy than truly evil. During the time he was training Gohan, both Mr. Popo and Kami noted the change in Piccolo's personality with Mr. Popo noting he was no longer the Demon King of old referencing his loss of Demon Clan status and Kami himself surmised that he had the same premonition of death that Kami himself had and that Piccolo wanted to leave behind some kind of legacy even if it was in the son of his sworn enemy. Around the start of Gohan's training Piccolo told Gohan that if he feels resentment towards him, then he should curse his own fate like Piccolo did, indicating Kami was right about Piccolo's motivation. During the battle with Nappa, Piccolo goes as far as to sacrifice his life to save Gohan, stating how his friendship and love had changed him forever. Piccolo has stated that Gohan was the first person to see him not as a monster and was proud to call him his friend. From then on, Piccolo became very protective of Gohan, proud in his growth as a man and seeing Gohan almost like a little brother, to which Gohan himself came to care for Piccolo as a dear uncle. This also truly cemented his change from evil to good and a true friend and team-mate for the Z Fighters. He also came to view Goku in a similar light as a dear friend and ally as after being teleported from the self-destructing Planet Namek and learning of Goku's intentions, Piccolo noted he would have preferred to fight alongside the noble warrior to the end, showing his respect for the Earth's savior.

Despite having spent most of his life unaware of his origins as an alien rather than a demon and shocked to learn such, Piccolo came to appreciate learning this truth. To which, upon learning of Frieza's genocidal attack on the Namekians, Piccolo was determined to fight Frieza and avenge his people, even when King Kai warned him of the danger Frieza's might possesses. After fusing with Nail and acquiring all his knowledge of Namekian culture, Piccolo felt whole as a person, now able to understand his roots. The greatest change in his character was when he made the choice to remerge with Kami so he could battle the androids. Kami's willingness to do this showed how little evil was left in Piccolo, trusting that Piccolo would use the extra strength along with Kami's divine powers and centuries-worth of experience for good. Once reunited, all remaining traces of evil disappeared from Piccolo. Furthermore, after remerging with Kami, Piccolo also gained tremendous levels of care for the Lookout, becoming extremely distraught upon seeing it destroyed during Gotenks' battle with Super Buu, to the point of leaving him completely distracted from the ongoing battle and unaware of incoming attacks that could potentially kill him.

While still having a stern demeanor for the most part, Piccolo showed genuine compassion for all living being beyond those he deemed a friend, as he tried to get Cell to spare the man in Ginger Town. Furthermore, during the Fusion Saga, when Super Buu exterminates the human race with a single attack, Piccolo drops to his knees, both in shame for suggesting Buu to kill more humans (believing that it was necessary in order to bide time for Goten and Trunks to train, and as the Earthlings could be restored to life with the Dragon Balls) and horror, with Piccolo desperately hoping for redemption and vowing to bring them all back to life. Although he still has little to say unless it involves battle and does not seem to understand the concept of romance, referring to it as "mushy stuff", although this is understandable since Namekians lack romantic relations.

As Piccolo carries on in life, he becomes slightly more relaxed and joyful, which simultaneously made it easier to stress and annoy him. He would partake and enjoy various parties and social events, including Bulma's birthday and Gohan's wedding. Even more, in Dragon Ball Super, Piccolo's kindness continued to show, displaying a gentler and nurturing side, helping in the raising of Pan, showing a very efficient job of it as he had a whole list set up on what to do for the baby and genuinely enjoyed it. His raising of Pan also shows his more joyful and silly side, playing Peek-a-Boo with Pan when no one was looking and revealing that he actually sings to Pan whenever she cried at night, though he takes pains to hide this. He has since taken it upon himself to teach her martial arts with the promise of ki usage training once she proves herself ready. In Dragon Ball GT, his compassion and selflessness were even willing to sacrifice his life permanently to make sure the Black Star Dragon Balls remained unusable. While encouraging Gohan to find his own path in life, he still firmly believes that Gohan must keep up his training to better protect that which he loves. To which, he proudly accepted Gohan's request to retraining him after the second battle against Frieza cost Piccolo his life again to save Gohan. During which, Piccolo retains his harsh and merciless training methods, all in the goal of restoring Gohan's fighting instinct and true power.

Unlike most Namekians, Piccolo has a history of consuming solid food in addition to the Namekians normally liquid diet of water. As a child, he is seen catching and eating a fish. Even after it is revealed Namekians only require water to survive, Piccolo occasionally eats solid food. In Dragon Ball Super he can be seen occasionally with a plate of food during various social gathers implying Piccolo eats socially. However, his favorite food is water from the Northern Mountains indicating he still retains a normal Namekian diet in addition to eating solid food. In, when Videl offers to bring him food as reward for picking up Pan from kindergarten, Piccolo reminds her that he doesn't need to eat food to survive and can merely live off of water, suggesting that Piccolo ceased eating solid food entirely.

In Xenoverse, Piccolo is shown to have learned from his father's mistakes even using Master Mutaito's defeat of King Piccolo with the Electric Rice Cooker and Evil Containment Wave as an analogy of why one must use whatever items or abilities one has at their disposal to win. This is further shown in the original manga/anime by Piccolo's development of the Evil Containment Wave Reflection technique which he used to counter Kami's use of the Evil Containment Wave essentially removing the one threat his father had feared the most.
