Kid Buu Saga
https://dragonball.fandom.com/wiki/Kid_Buu_Saga

The Kid Buu Saga is the eighteenth saga in the Dragon Ball Z series. The manga volume that it is made up of is "Goodbye, Dragon World". The saga deals with Goku and Vegeta's final battle against Kid Buu, the original form of Majin Buu. This saga originally aired in Japan in late 1995 and aired in the United States in early 2003.

The 30th Anniversary timeline splits the final four episodes, set after the ten-year gap containing Dragon Ball Super, into a separate Peaceful World Saga.

Plot

The End of Earth

After Super Buu transforms into his original form, Kid Buu's first target is the Earth, which, in a psychotic episode, he completely obliterates as soon as his transformation is complete. Gohan, Piccolo, Goten, Trunks, Tien Shinhan, Chiaotzu, Korin, and Yajirobe all perish in the ensuing blast, with Goku, Vegeta, Mr. Satan, Dende and Bee barely managing to escape thanks to Kibito Kai using his Kai Kai technique to transport them to the Sacred World of the Kai. Vegeta angrily berates Goku for causing the needless deaths of their sons and friends, adding that, with the Earth Dragon Balls now destroyed, there is no way of bringing them back. They then remember that the Namekian Dragon Balls are still active, and Kibito Kai offers to teleport there.

However, Kid Buu regenerates amidst the shattered remains of Earth and goes on a murderous rampage across the universe, destroying multiple planets when he is unable to find Goku and Vegeta. The last remaining Z-Fighters decide to lure the evil Majin to them, and he easily teleports to their location. Kibito Kai then teleports himself, Dende and Old Kai away from the battle, but accidentally leaves Mr. Satan and Bee behind. Winning a Rock-Paper-Scissors bet against Vegeta, Goku starts off in his Super Saiyan form, but is shocked to see Kid Buu sleeping. Enraged, Goku exclaims that, because of a "despicable guy" like Kid Buu, all of his friends and family are dead, and vows to make Buu suffer for what he's done. Goku's anger then erupts, and he transforms into a Super Saiyan 2. He tries to conserve energy and actually holds up pretty well. Realizing a few minutes into the battle that Kid Buu is tougher than he looks, Goku transforms into a Super Saiyan 3.

The Final Battle: Goku and Vegeta vs. Kid Buu

Goku fights Kid Buu, but cannot defeat the evil Majin due to his regeneration and perpetual strength. Goku launches a Kamehameha at Kid Buu, but barely even damages him. Vegeta steps in, but proves to be no match. Just before he is killed, Goku resumes fighting at Super Saiyan 3. As they battle, Vegeta comes to accept that Goku is stronger than him. Goku curses, having wasted too much energy in the fight. Vegeta re-enters the battle, allowing the worn-out Goku to rest and gather his energy for a final attack. Kid Buu re-engages in battle with Super Saiyan 2 Vegeta, and rejuvenates himself too many times for Vegeta's energy to catch up. Vegeta does his best to give Goku the time he needs, but for some reason, it is taking longer than expected.

Eventually Vegeta falls, so Mr. Satan steps in and challenges Kid Buu, but Kid Buu finds himself unable to attack his former friend. He then spits out something that turns out to be Good Buu. Mr. Satan overcomes his cowardice to fight for his unconscious friend. When Good Buu wakes up, he saves Mr. Satan and begins fighting Kid Buu. Meanwhile, Vegeta tells Dende, Kibito Kai and Old Kai to travel to New Namek, where they use the Namekian Dragon Balls to summon Porunga. Vegeta has them wish for the restoration of Earth and the resurrection of everyone killed since the beginning of the 25th World Martial Arts Tournament, except for the most evil ones. Earth and its inhabitants, including Old Kai, Vegeta, Gohan, Goten, Trunks, Piccolo, Tien, Chiaotzu, Yajirobe, Korin, Android 17, Chi-Chi, Bulma, Videl, Android 18, Krillin, Marron, Yamcha, Master Roshi, Ox-King and Mr. Popo are revived by the Dragon Balls. Vegeta then explains his plan to defeat Kid Buu: a Super Spirit Bomb made from the freely given energy of the people of Earth, transferred through Goku.

Spirit Bomb Triumphant

Vegeta communicates to the entire planet via King Kai, asking the people of Earth to give their energy to power the Super Spirit Bomb, but only their friends and families believe him with everyone else hesitant to trust someone who sounds so aggressive. Meanwhile, Good Buu, despite his best efforts, is defeated by Kid Buu. Vegeta attempts again to hold off Kid Buu again so that the Spirit Bomb can be completed. Goku asks the people of Earth to help, but only a few more people who Goku helped in the past actually give up their energy. Things look bleak, until Mr. Satan proceeds to tell the people to give up their energy so that he can defeat Kid Buu. With everyone having great trust for him, they finally give their energy towards the Spirit Bomb.

The Spirit Bomb is finished, but Kid Buu has defeated Vegeta, who is now too weak to move. Kid Buu knows Goku will not fire the Spirit Bomb because it would destroy his friend, so he stands on top of Vegeta while continuing to blast away at Goku. Meanwhile, on Earth, Piccolo, Gohan, Goten and Trunks head to Kami's Lookout to reunite with their friends and families. Good Buu uses the last of his power to knock Kid Buu over, and tells Mr. Satan to grab Vegeta, which he does. Goku throws the Spirit Bomb, but Kid Buu is able to stop the Spirit Bomb and deflect it back towards Goku. Vegeta asks Dende to make one last wish: to restore Goku's strength. Porunga grants the wish and Goku feels renewed. Goku then transforms into a Super Saiyan and pushes the Spirit Bomb back towards Kid Buu. The attack proves to be too much for Kid Buu to handle, and he can only let out one last scream of utter terror before he is completely obliterated. After billions of years of death and destruction, Kid Buu's madness has finally been put to an end.

As Kid Buu's body disintegrates, Goku hopes that he will come back as a good person, and they can have a rematch. King Yemma hears Goku and decides to grant his request (though Goku doesn't know this). Vegeta finally feels unthreatened by Goku's ability to surpass him (for now), and he also accepts his role as a Z-Fighter. Goku tells everybody that Old Kai transferred his life energy to him so he can stay on Earth for good, as Chi-Chi sheds tears of happiness at the Son family being whole again. Later, Goku uses the Dragon Balls to wish for the people of Earth to forget about Majin Buu's evil deeds, so that Good Buu can exist without being feared.

Post-Battle Aftermath
The events continue with a post-battle aftermath prior to Beerus' awakening.[https://www.kanzenshuu.com/2015/07/01/dragon-ball-super-complete-showcase-event-reveals-series-plot/ DBS announcement]
