Other World Saga
https://dragonball.fandom.com/wiki/Other_World_Saga

The Other World Saga or Anoyoichi Budokai SagaFunimation Dragon Box volume 5 Dragon Book, 2011 is the twelfth saga of Dragon Ball Z. It is entirely filler and thus does not appear in the manga. It is set between the Cell Games Saga and the Great Saiyaman Saga. Originally considered part of the Great Saiyaman Saga in Funimation's older releases, it is listed as its own saga in the Funimation Dragon Box Sets. It aired in Japan in 1993.

Like the Garlic Jr. Saga, it is comprised entirely of filler material and thus omitted from Dragon Ball Z Kai, though the montage at the end of the episode "Peace for the Future! The Spirit of Goku is Forever!" shows clips from it.

Plot

Other World Tournament

After the events of the Cell Games where Gohan has defeated Cell on Earth, a deceased Goku goes with King Kai to the Check-In Station where they board a plane for the Grand Kai's Planet, a place where many deceased heroic fighters reside. Once there, Goku meets the top student of the West Kai, Pikkon as well as the Grand Kai, a being who rules over each of the four individual Kais. Shortly afterward they are informed of a disturbance in Hell, where Frieza, his father King Cold, Cell and the Ginyu Force (minus Captain Ginyu) are terrorizing the guards to tell them the way out. Pikkon is told to head down there and sort the problem out and Goku tags along with him to help. Goku rescues a guard who is almost killed by spikes then easily dispatches of the Ginyu Force. However, when Cell heads straight for Goku, Pikkon intervenes, taking him out with ease, and also Frieza and King Cold.

After peace in the Other World is returned, the four Kais find themselves in an argument and the West Kai suggests holding a Tournament to see who has the best fighter and Goku is informed by King Kai of the Other World Tournament that is to take place with the prize being a lesson from the Grand Kai himself. During the tournament, Goku defeats Caterpy, Arqua, Maraikoh and Pikkon defeats all three of his opponents including Olibu, until they reach the finals and face each other for the tournament victory. At first, both seem equal in strength, but then Goku transforms into a Super Saiyan and Pikkon starts fighting at his full power by removing his weighted clothing.

As the battle gets more intense, Pikkon seems to have the upper hand, taking down Goku with his Hyper Tornado and Thunder Flash Attack. But at the last moment, when Pikkon decides to use his Thunder Flash for the third time, Goku utilizes his Instant Transmission and counters with his Kamehameha, blasting Pikkon out of the arena, seemingly giving Goku a victory until the Grand Kai disqualifies them both because they touched the ceiling, which is not allowed, thus ending the match in a draw. However, Grand Kai agrees to train Goku and Pikkon in about 200–300 years, giving him time to get back in shape.

Meanwhile, on Earth, seven years has passed since the battle with Cell. A teenaged Gohan has finally gone back to studying as he begins his first day of High School, and he goes on his Flying Nimbus whilst Chi-Chi tells Gohan to be careful.
