Peaceful World Saga
https://dragonball.fandom.com/wiki/Peaceful_World_Saga

The Peaceful World SagaDragon Ball SSSS, 2015, also known as the End of 'Z' Saga, is the epilogue saga of Dragon Ball Z, taking place ten years after the end of the Kid Buu Saga. It is usually treated as part of the Majin Buu Saga,Daizenshuu 2 and Funimation but was marked as a saga in its own right as part of Dragon Ball SSSS' 30th Anniversary Timeline. In Japan, it aired in January 1996, and it aired in the United States in April 2003.

Plot

Party Time

Six months after the defeat of Kid Buu, Chi-Chi, Gohan and Goten prepare to go to Bulma's house for a barbecue party to celebrate Kid Buu's defeat, but Goku is nowhere to be found. As Chi-Chi's anger rises, Goku is having troubles of his own. While waiting to witness the hatching of four pterosaur eggs, troubles arise, casting him into the role of egg protector.

Once at the party, everybody begins to show up, including Dende, Mr. Satan and Good Buu. Everyone seems to be enjoying the food, music and each other's company until Goku is mentioned. Right then, the party comes to a halt, and everyone's face is downcast. Meanwhile, Goku braves many dangers and keeps the pterosaur eggs safe until they hatch.

Goku remembers the party right afterward, and he gets there just as the party is coming to an end. While initially angry at Goku, Chi-Chi and Bulma get all the food and party supplies back out, because they feel Goku should get to participate in the party as well. At the end of the episode, everyone is sitting, listening to Goku tell about the eggs and how great it was to see the new baby pterosaur be born.

A New Beginning for Goku

Ten years after the defeat of Kid Buu, many of the Z Fighters have experienced changes in their lives. Bulma and Vegeta have welcomed a daughter, Bulla, to their family, Goten and Trunks have grown into strong teenagers and Gohan has retired from fighting to become a scholar. He is also married to Videl and they now have a daughter named Pan, who idolizes her grandfather and wishes to be a hero like him. At the 28th World Martial Arts Tournament, the Z Fighters meet a ten-year-old boy called Uub. This boy is the reincarnation of Kid Buu, born from the wish Goku made before killing Kid Buu. Goku asks Good Buu to change the numbers so that he will be matched with Uub. Goku and Uub begin to fight, and it is clear that Uub has great potential. As they fight, Goku mocks Uub several times to see his true potential, which works. Goku cuts the match short by suggesting he train Uub. Goku asks Uub if, after he is trained, they can have a rematch.

Uub agrees and Goku feels excited by the chance to become even stronger. Before leaving once again, Goku bids farewell to his family and friends, and tells Vegeta that he looks forward to another fight. Although the tournament is technically cancelled because Goku and Uub did not finish their match, Trunks, Goten and Pan spar, with Pan defeating Goten, and Trunks holding her arm up in victory. The series ends with Goku flying with Uub to his village, in the hopes that Goku will be able to train him so that Uub will someday become Earth's new protector.
